# Work statement

Within this touring exhibition the images of childhood are used to discuss
the perceived highs and lows endured as one moves into and through
responsible adulthood. A highly specialised form of colour inked etching
yields fine lines, and mellow tones whilst events from a female life unfold.
Scottish born and, trained, Dianne Murphy has lectured in Welsh art
colleges since 1988 and now lives with her family in Pontypridd. A widely
exhibited artist, this collection of finely worked printmaking techniques
spans ten years and includes pieces from the 1990 Welsh Arts Council
Travel Award and 1993 Philadelphian Residency

My Work initially involved discussions of all features of childhood - both good and bad. Moving on i now have begun to use such images as a visual language - investigating, from an adults viewpoint, the aspect of indoctrinational attitudes and remembered injustices left to fester within children. Past relationships have been explored and some, thankfully, exorcised. More recently, my own life has brought me to look at the phenomenon of our present-day ‘career woman' and just exactly what this means in terms of, literally, marrying milestones within career and the peculiarly female physiological constraints. Financial pressures and the strains imposed by a social climate which still manages to maintain a romantcised idea of couples marriage and childbirth currently give me a strong desire to create new pieces."

Much of the newer work is based on research gathered during the Travel Award of 1990 when drawings were made in the Museums of Childhood throughout Scotland, England, Germany and France. The next project will concentrate on exclusively Welsh source drawings."

DATGANIAD GWAITH

O fewn yr arddangosfa deithiol hon defnyddir de/weddau plentyndod i
drafod uchelfannau ac iselfannau profjad ar rand tyfu I fyny'n oedolyn
"cyfrifol". Rhydd ffurf arbenigol lawn ysgythriad inc lliw linellau tenau
a thonau aeddfed tra datgelif digwyddiadau mewn bywyd meny. Yn
enedigol o'r Alban ac wedi cal ei hyfforddiant yon, mae Diarine Murphy
wedi darlithio yng ngholegau celf Cymru ers 1988 ac mae'n byw nawr
gyda' i theulu ym Mhontypridid. Mae wedi arddangos ei gwaith yn helaeth
a chynrychiola'r casgliad hwn, sy'n defnyddio tèchnegau printio man a
manwl iawn, iawn, 9 mlynedd o waith ac mae'n cyninwys darnau
greuwyd o’i Gwobr Deithio Cungor Celfyddydau: Cymru 1990 a’r
"Philadelphian Residency 1993”

"Roedd fy ngwaith ar y cychwyn yn trafod holl nodweddion plentyndod y da a'r drwg. Yn fwy diweddar rwyr wedi defnydato delweddau o’r fath fel iaith weledol i ymchwilio thema o drwytho plant o safbwynt oedolyn. Rwyf wedi ymchwillo hefyd i mewn i hen berthnasau personol, a hyd yn oed eu bwrw allan. Nawr mae ffenomen y ‘ferch a gyrfa' o ddiddordeb arbennig i mi. Ceisiaf, archwilio'r pwysau ariannol a roddir arni, ynghyd a phwysau a rydd hinsawdd gymdeithasol sy’n rhamanteiddio cyplau, priodas a genedigaeth

Seiliwyd llawer or gwaith diweddaraf ar ymchwil a gasglwyd yn ystod  Gwobr Deithio 1990 prid y gnaeth luniadiau mewn Amgueddfeydd plentyndod ar draws yr Alban, Lloegr, yr Almaen a Ffrainc. Bydd y prosiect nesaf sy'n dechrau cyn bo hir, yn canolbwyntion gyfangwbl ar
ddeunyddiau o ffynhonnell Cymraeg.