FUN AND GAMES
Dianne Murphy
"TECHNIQUE DESCRIPTIONS
The colour etchings are very time-consuming creatures to produce
and the bigger pieces take around 4-5 hours just to apply the ink for
one print off. Basically, the ink is applied directly where the colour
will finally appear and the plate is made up like a patchwork quilt
üntil completely covered. Then begins the delicate process whereby
the ink is removed, leaving an exen application in all the right places.
Best papers are always used and edition numbers are printed and
logged as I go along due to the rime limitations of such a lengthy process.

Silkscreen Monoprints are made by pushing pastel through the mesh
screen after it has been drawn onto. Since the printing medium is
only that which has ben held in the holes of the mesh it exhausts
pretty quickly and although there may be 2-3 prints off there tends
to be only one really good one. It's also a chance happening as to
which parts of the image break down and print through with each
'pull'.

Drypoints have been made by scratching into cut out pieces of litho
sheeting which has a shiny, coated surface. Ink is applied as with
the colour etchings but then selective wiping creates much of the
effect. Plates exhaust quickly as it's only the raised edge of the
scratch which holds ink - this is progressively squashed flatter with
each run through the rollers of the press.

Disgriffiadau o’r dechnoeg

Cymer yr ysgrythiadau lliw arser hir i’w cynhyrchu a chymer tua
4-5 awr dim ond i roir inc ar gyfer un argraffiad. Yn sylfaenol,
rhoddir yr inc yn syth ar y lle bydd y lliw'n ymddangos yn y diwedd
a bydd y plat fel clytwaith wedi i orchuddio i gyd. Yna bydd y
broses gain o dynnu'r inc i gyd yn dechrau, gan adael haen wastad
yn y llefydd awn. Defnyddir y papurau gorau bob, amser ac
argraffir a chofnodir fel yr af ymlaen gan fod cyfyngiadau amser i
broses mor faith.

Gwneir Monoprinitiau sgrin sidan twy whtio pastel drwy’r sgrin rhywydwaith ar ol tunni llun arni. Gan mai’ unig gtfrwng printio yw’r un sydd wedi ei ddal yn nhyllau’r rhywydwaith fe’i defynddir yb eitha sydd ac er y ceir efallau 2 neu 3 print ohono dim ond un fel rheol fydd yn un da. Hefyd damwain a hap yw pa rannau o'r ddelwedd sy'n printio gyda phob "tyniad"

Gwnaed yr ysgythriadau sychbwynt trwy grafu ar doriadau o len litho sydd ag arwyneb sglein, Rhoddir inc fel gydag ysgythriadau lliw ond wedyn sychu ymaith yn ddewisol sy’n creu llawer o’r effaith. Mae’r platiau’n sychu’n sydyn gan mai on gwrym ar rimyn yr ysgythriad sy’n cal inc - bydd hwn yn cael ei wasgu’n fwy a mwy bod tro yr aiff trwy roleri’r wasg.